Comments on "Metaphilosophy"
(draft article for Internet Encycopaedia received 10 Jan 2010)
by Nicolas Joli

I err in the following by including all that occurs to me, without
judging on the significance.

I have no expectation that you will act on any of the comments, I
offer my opinions and expect that yours will differ.

section 1a
Page 4:

In "the very nature" you italicise "very" but not "nature", this seems
odd to me. Surely the other way round? (or both)

The contrast between second-order and first-order seems to me
incorrect, insofar as the reflexive case is not so much first order as
type(order)-free. (however, the reader will probably understand what you say,
and will not understand you if you start talking in what I would
regard as a more correct order-free manner).

.....

There seems to me to be much in this short section which I would think
too marginal to consider, and yet to me the principle issue raised by
the Lazerowitz definition is that it presumes a descriptive rather
than a prescriptive or normative enterprise, which you do not discuss.
My own interest in metaphilosophy is as a process of deciding upon and
describing what kind of philosophy I want to engage in, and this is so
deeply woven in with philosophy itself as to be a continuously
evolving enterprise. 

section 1b

I find it odd to talk as you seem to do of all philosophy as
constituting or embracing an implicit metaphilosophy encompassing that
philosophy.
Its seems to me a common defect in philosophy that it is conducted
with insufficient awareness, or an inadequate articulation, of the
methods it employs and I am therefore disinclined to credit a
philosopher with a metaphilosophy unless he explicitly declares one.

section 1c

Second sentence "Alternatively one could about ..." hard to parse.
Suggest add "group" at least, or completely rework.

The analytic/continental classification seems a bit weak to me.
Firstly it involves you in construing all non-continental western
philosophy as analytic, and you therefore lose the distinction in that
tradition between philosophy which in some stronger sense is analytic
and the rest.  Russell and Moore, when they chose to go analytic were
not reacting against "continental" philosophy (in the sense in which I
guess you intend to use that term), they were reacting against a British
idealism.

As an organisational arrangement for your article it may be that the
continental/non-continental division works, but as a classification
with some more philosophical purpose I doubt its value.

section 2
