Pragmatics and The City of Eternal Truth

J.L. Speranza has lead us from strand 5 of Grice in the "Retrospective Epilogue" of WOW through a wealth of material on pragmatics to which I love to be able to respond fully.
However my several attempts to do so have all found their way into the bin, so I am now starting again from the top in the hope of sketching how pragmatics first into our enterprise.

The enterprise, I speak of we can think of at two levels.
The first level is our "conversation between Carnap and Grice" in which we seek a raprochement such as might conceivably have ultimately emerged between them.
The second we may think of as common ideal on which these two in consequence might converge, "The City of Eternal Truth".

What is this thing, and how might pragmatics help us to locate or construct it?

Its easier for me to say how Carnap might have construed it, for it is conspicuous in Russell that the desire to terminate the endless inconclusive debate in philosophy should encourage philosophers to work within the confines of what can reliably be established by the methods of modern logic, and that if this was done philosophical results once established would have the eternal verity which some of us (including many eminent philosophers) associate with the theorems of mathematics.
Carnap self consciously associated his work with the program put forward by Russell, and sought to make philosophy logically rigorous in itself, and helpful to science through the logical analysis of scientific language.

Looking at the outline of philosophy in the twentieth century from a great height we see the program embarked upon by Russell and then the Logical Positivists as twice repudiated, and extinguished at the second blow.
The first was Wittgenstein's as he made his way from the youthfull errors of the Tractatus to his mature philosophy.
The second was Quine's, his assault reaching its zenith in "Two Dogmas of Empiricism".
Kripke might also be mentioned.

Grice doesn't feature in this picture, not even Oxford "ordinary language philosophy", though that does seem to belong among the progeny of Wittgenstein's repudiation.
As I undestand him Grice begins with ordinary language philosophy at a time when it perhaps no longer wq


Retreat from dogma bete-ing
===========================
The City of Eternal Truth is the place where the philosophies of Carnap and Grice are to be reconciled in a harmonious communion in which their essential insights are encompassed through a broad conception of philosophical analysis.

In considering the principle obstacles to such a reconciliation, as a part of the process of elucidating this vision, Grice's Bete's Noire loom large, and have been characterised by Speranza as a diversity of minimalisms.

Naively interpreted, it is felt by Jones, that they represent a serious impediment to dialogue, but that so interpreted they seem out of character with Grice.
Jones has therefore suggested that what Grice had in mind may have been what he would call "dogmatic" minimalisations, of which he claims, Carnap was less guilty than many have supposed.

We can understand a Gricean intolerance of intolerance, but draw the line there, and suggest that a campaign against dogma (minimalist or otherwise) could be acceptable to Grice and less offensive to Carnap.
This substitution was supported by a little argument to the effect that a minimalisation might not necessarily be bad, but that a dogma always is (at least in analytic philosophy).

There is something to be said for this position, but I have since found something to be said against it, and propose to throw it to the wolves.

It is true, on the definition I gave ("belief beyond reason") that dogmas seem on the face of it, necessarily immune to reasonable defence.
The difficulty is that we may (and surely will) disagree about what is a dogma, and will have to engage in a rather circular kind of disputation if we seek to settle the question whether any particular belief is or is not dogmatic.

