
.nr PS 11
.nr VS 14
.so roff.defs
.LP
.TL
Proof Theory in the VDM-SL standard
.AU
Roger Bishop Jones
.AI
ICL Defence Systems
.\".AB no
.\".AE
.ds LH DTC/RBJ/036   Issue 1
.ds CH VDM Proof Theory
.ds RH 1987-03-12
.ds LF DTC/RBJ/036   Issue 1
.ds CF VDM Proof Theory
.ds RF Page \\n(PN
.LP
In order to support the process of reasoning about formal specifications in
VDM-SL and to provide a firm basis for computer based support of this process
it is though appropriate to supply proof theory for VDM-SL in the standard.
.LP
This standard proof theory will define what is a \fIformal\fP proof.
We do not propose to offer any guidance on what level of detail should be
presented in informal proofs, whatever their degree of rigour.
.LP
The particular proof rules will serve primarily to give a definition of what
theorems should be provable.
They will form an example of a proof system which is sound, and reasonably
complete in respect of the standard VDM-SL semantics.
Developers of tools intended to support proofs in VDM-SL need not adopt the
axioms and inference rules provided in the standard, but insofar as they deviate
they take upon themselves the obligation to demonstrate the soundness of their
proof rules.
This might be done by reference to (or relative to) the proof rules in the
standard.
.LP
The aspects of proof theory which will be addressed are:
.RS
.IP 1
\fISyntax of Proofs\fP
.br
An abstract syntax will be supplied for formal proofs in VDM-SL.
This will encompass formal specification of a decidable set of axioms,
and a formal specification of what is a valid inference step.
A soundness proof will be sought, but need not be published in the standard.
.IP 2
\fIVerification Conditions\fP
.br
The documented "context conditions" for VDM indicate at various points that
certain "verification conditions" need proof to establish the type correctness
of the specification.
If the type system of standard VDM-SL is not effectively
decidable then these points at which proof is required will be fully documented
in the standard.
.IP 3
\fIProof Obligations\fP
.br
The literature on VDM provides details of "proof obligations".
Some of the information documented under this heading properly belongs
under the heading "syntax of proofs" and as such will form part of the
standard.
Such material as genuinely constitutes advice about what should be proven
rather than definitions of what constitutes a proof will be reproduced
in the standard but will be clearly shown to be advisory.
.RE
.LP
The initial source of this material will be "Systematic Software Development
using VDM".
This will be enhanced in detail and precision as necessary to support fully
formal proof, and will be modified as necessary to match the syntax and
semantics of VDM-SL.
