In considering trust in interactive theorem proving it is worthwhile
to ask what it is that we want to trust.  The easy answer is that we
want to be able to trust that when a theorem prover accepts a conjecture
as proven, that the conjecture really is a theorem of the relevant
deductive system.  There may be advantages however, in taking a step
backwards.

If instead we say that it is the truth of the conjecture which is at
stake, and that a formal proof of that conjecture in some sound deductive
system is a means (but possibly not the only one) to obtaining assurance
of truth, then we may open up possibilities hitherto closed.

Under the heading "X-Logic" I have been considering how to organise
distributed logically pluralistic deductive methods, as a part of a
general analytic method.  This is an activity conducted by formal 
modelling, and one feature of the X-Logic model has been a system
of marking conclusions with a level of assurance (authority or trust)
which reflects the trustworthyness of the technologies and other
elements which have contributed to the result.  The purpose of this
is to permit a liberal conception of proof technology without diluting
the assurance which attaches to the most rigorous and trustworthy proof
tools. This is analogous to allowing the use of oracles but tagging
the conclusions with the names of the oracles which have participated.

In a substantial reworking of the ideas in X-Logic I have begun 
by enhancing and separating out this workings of this simple assurance
marking system, and it is the purpose of this short talk to present
this system.

The system is intended for use by interactive or other proof tools
operating in a shared but not homogeneous logical space, so that
one tool may may use of results derived by others, and will record
its results in open formats accessible to other tools.
Each tool participating in this scheme is given an assurance label
with an associated private key which is uses to digitally sign its
conclusions.  If the tool bases its conclusions in part on results
which have been obtained by others, it will in the process compute
a level of assurance which corresponds to the use of other sources,
and it records its conclusion as conditional on the infallibility of
those sources.
