"X-Logic" is a bundle of ideas on the formal side of a linguistically and
methodologically pluralistic conception of analytic method.  It is broadly
scoped within the confines of formal nomologico-deductive methods,
in which the nomological element is construed as the construction
of an abstract model of relevant aspects of the target of the analysis.

One of the motives in the development of these ideas has been to broaden
our conception of what is a formal model and of how one might "reason"
about such a model, in such a way as to lower the threshold for engagement
in formal deductive techniques, and increase the prospective economic benefits.

The lowering of the threshold is a relaxation of standards of assurance,
which is intended not to reduce but to make more flexible those standards.
The intention is to enable users to chose that point in balancing between
cost, assurance, performance and functionality which best suits their needs.

In the proposed talk, some background will be given on the origins and character
of X-Logic, before focusing on two aspects of X-Logic relevant to assurance in
interactive theorem proving.

The first of these is a lattice of assurance/trust/authority levels and the way
in which this is used in the context of distributed interactive or automatic
theorem proving.
The lattice is finitely generated from a set of authors who make inferences
and digitally sign the results.  The lattice is a distributive quotient of
the free distributed lattice satisfying inequalities arising from endorsements
which act (inter alia) as certifications of one author or authority level by
an author.

In the context of this workshop significance of this lattice is its
roles:

1. In permitting a level of confidence to be associated with the results
   of using diverse logical systems and proof technologies in a single proof.

2. In supporting analogues of certification for conclusions drawn about formal
   models and for the agents contributing to such conclusions. 

